Breaking upgrade docs (0.4) (#1087)
Quansight/qhub: docs/source/admin_guide/backup.md

### Pod deployment

> With kubectl configured, the user now needs to deploy the pod that allows the user to access the cluster files. First save the following pod specification to a file named `pod.yaml`

Reviewer: ```{suggestion}
With kubectl configured,  the next step will be to deploy the pod that allows the user to access the cluster files. First save the following pod specification to a file named `pod.yaml`
```

          name: volume-to-debug-ubuntu
```

> Note in QHub versions before v0.4 replace `claimName: "jupyterhub-dev-share"` with `claimName: "nfs-mount-dev-share"`

> Run:

Reviewer: ```{suggestion}
Once the file `pod.yml` has been created, run the following command:
```

> ```shell

Reviewer: Suggestion replace `dev` with <your-namespace> from here on

Reviewer: Then you can remove some bits referring to the change from `dev` to other namespaces

Author: `dev` isn't referring to the namespace in this case, but I see the confusion so will explain.

The file permissions for the default tar is same as the original files.

> **Important: If upgrading from 0.3.14 or earlier to 0.4 or later**
>
> QHub v0.4: If restoring your NFS as part of the upgrade you must also run some extra commands, immediately after extracting from the tar file.
>
> Because previous versions contained the `shared` folder within `home`, but they are now both at the same level, you must run:

> > ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ```bash
```

> cd /data
> cp -r home/shared/* shared/
> rm -rf home/shared/
> ```
> And then:

> > ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ```bash
```

> chown -R 1000:100 /data/home/*
> chown -R 1000:100 /data/shared/*
> ```
> This is because all users have the same uid in QHub v0.4 onward.
>

### Google cloud provider

> To use the Google Cloud provider, install [gsutil](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/gsutil_install). The instructions are same as the preceding steps. Additionally, use these commands for copy/download of the backup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Google Cloud provider, install the [gsutil](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/gsutil_install) CLI. The instructions are the same as the preceding steps. Additionally, use these commands for copy/download of the backup:
```

The file permissions for the default tar is same as the original files.

> **Important: If upgrading from 0.3.14 or earlier to 0.4 or later**
>
> QHub v0.4: If restoring your NFS as part of the upgrade you must also run some extra commands, immediately after extracting from the tar file.
>

> > Because previous versions contained the `shared` folder within `home`, but they are now both at the same level, you must run:

Reviewer: ```{suggestion}
> Previous versions contained the `shared` folder within `home`. From `0.4.0` both `shared` and `home` directories are at the same level with respect to the QHub filesystem:

```

> ```shell
> cd /data
> cp -r home/shared/* shared/
> rm -rf home/shared/
> ```
> And then:
> ```shell
> chown -R 1000:100 /data/home/*
> chown -R 1000:100 /data/shared/*
> ```

> > This is because all users have the same uid in QHub v0.4 onward.

Reviewer: ```{suggestion}
> From QHUb v0.4. all users will have the same `uid`
```

>

### Google cloud provider

> To use the Google Cloud provider, install the [gsutil](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/gsutil_install) CLI. The instructions are the same as the preceding steps. Additionally, use these commands for copy/download of the backup:

Reviewer: Again what are the preceding steps? do you refer to AWS? if so make it explicit otherwise folks will get lost

### Digital Ocean

> Similar instructions, but use Digital Ocean spaces. This guide explains installation of the command-line tool:

Reviewer: ```{suggestion}
We suggest you follown this Digital Ocean installation guide of the command-line tool:
```

<https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-migrate-from-amazon-s3-to-digitalocean-spaces-with-rclone>

## JupyterHub Database

The JupyterHub database will mostly be recreated whenever you start a new cluster, but should be backed up to save Dashboard configurations.

> You want to do something very similar to the NFS backup, above - this time you need to back up just one file, and it's on the PersistentVolume `hub-db-dir`.

Reviewer: ```{suggestion}
You want to do something very similar to the NFS backup, above - this time you need to back up just one file located in the  PersistentVolume `hub-db-dir`.
```

> First, you might think you can just make a new `pod.yaml` file, this time specifying `claimName: "hub-db-dir"` instead of `claimName: "jupyterhub-dev-share"`. However, `hub-db-dir` is 'Read Write Once' - the 'Once' meaning it can only be mounted to one pod at a time, but the JupyterHub pod will already have this mounted! So the same approach will not work here.

Reviewer: ```{suggestion}
It is important to note that `hub-db-dir` is 'Read Write Once' - the 'Once' meaning it can only be mounted to one pod at a time. in this case the `JupyterHub pod`. Instead of creating a new `pod.yml` file you will need to follow the next steps:

```

Author: I appreciate we jump into 'story telling mode' here, but I think I should leave it as anyone genuinely trying to understand will need to get to the bottom of this. As you say, everyone else is just copying and pasting anyway!

> So instead of mounting to a new 'debugger pod' we have to access the JupyterHub pod directly and see what we can do from there.

Reviewer: ```{suggestion}
Instead of mounting to a new 'debugger pod' you have to access the JupyterHub pod directly using the `kubectl` CLI.
```

Look up the JupyterHub pod:
```bash
kubectl get pods -n dev
```

It will be something like `hub-765c9488d6-8z4nj`.

Get a shell into that pod:

```bash
kubectl exec -n dev --stdin --tty hub-765c9488d6-8z4nj -- /bin/bash
```

There is no need to TAR anything up since the only file required to be backed up is `/srv/jupyterhub/jupyterhub.sqlite`.

### Backing up JupyterHub DB

> Now we just need to upload the file to S3. You might want to [install the AWS CLI tool](#installations) as we did before, but unfortunately the Hub container is quite locked down and it isn't straightforward to install that... So instead you need to upload to S3 using curl directly:

Reviewer: ```{suggestion}
Now we just need to upload the file to S3. You might want to [install the AWS CLI tool](#installations) as we did before, however, as the Hub container is a rather restricted environment the recommended approach is to upload files to AWS S3 buckets using curl.
```

Similar instructions, but use Digital Ocean spaces. This guide explains installation of the command-line tool:
https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-migrate-from-amazon-s3-to-digitalocean-spaces-with-rclone

## JupyterHub Database

The JupyterHub database will mostly be recreated when you start a new cluster anyway, but should be backed up to save Dashboard configurations.

> You can do something very similar to the NFS backup, above - this time you need to back up a file on the PersistentVolume `hub-db-dir`. First, you might think you can just make a new `pod.yaml` file, this time specifying `claimName: "hub-db-dir"` instead of `claimName: "nfs-mount-dev-share"`. However, `hub-db-dir` is 'Read Write Once' - the 'Once' meaning it can only be mounted to one pod at a time, but the JupyterHub pod will already have this mounted!

Reviewer: I got really lost following this section - could probably be turned into a list of numbered items specifying the steps

Author: I'll split this up a bit, but in fact it is not a list of steps that you should carry out. It explains why the same approach as used for NFS won't quite work this time.

So instead of mounting to a new 'debugger pod' we have to access the JupyterHub pod directly and see what we can do from there.

Look up the JupyterHub pod:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

kubectl get pods -n dev
```

It will be something like `hub-765c9488d6-8z4nj`.

Get a shell into that pod:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

kubectl exec -n dev --stdin --tty hub-765c9488d6-8z4nj -- /bin/bash
```

There is no need to TAR anything up since the only file required to be backed up is `/srv/jupyterhub/jupyterhub.sqlite`.

### Backing up JupyterHub DB

> So we just need to upload the file to S3. You might want to install the AWS CLI tool as we did before, but unfortunately the Hub container is quite locked down and it isn't straightforward to install that... You might need to upload to S3 using curl directly:

Reviewer: This sentence is duplicated from somewhere else above - but I did not see any actual steps on how to install said CLI

As [explained here](./awss3curl.md).

### Restoring JupyterHub DB

> Simply overwrite the same file `/srv/jupyterhub/jupyterhub.sqlite` based on the version backed up to S3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to overwrite the file `/srv/jupyterhub/jupyterhub.sqlite` based on the version backed up to S3.
```

You should restart the pod:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

kubectl delete -n dev pod hub-765c9488d6-8z4nj
```

> As for uploads, [you may need to download using curl](./awss3curl.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As for uploads, [you may need to use curl to download items from an AWS S3 bucket](./awss3curl.md).
```

## Keycloak user/group database

> QHub provides a simple script to export the important user/group database. Your new QHub cluster will recreate a lot of Keycloak config (including new Keycloak clients which will have new secrets), so only the high-level Group and User info is exported.

Reviewer: is this accurate? will it create a lot or all of?

Author: Yes, the point is that there is no need to export everything since some of the config will be created again on a new cluster, automatically. And we should use a lot of the new config - it's just things like user and group info that we want to re-import from any backup.

I don't think it's worth expanding on it further - most people will follow blindly anyway, but we just want to add a caveat to explain that we aren't actually backing up the full database, in case that's what users might be expecting.

Under 'Manage' on the left-hand side, click 'Import'. Locate the `exported-keycloak.json` file and select it. Then click the 'Import' button.

> All users and groups should now be present in Keycloak. Note that password will not have been restored so may need to be reset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All users and groups should now be present in Keycloak. Note that the passwords will not have been restored so you may need to be reset them after this step.
```
